README.md, before:

# Connect4

## By: Christopher Yeom

#### Checkout the links to my Github and Trello Board

[Github](https://github.com/Cyeom97/ConnectFour_Game)
[Trello Project Board](https://trello.com/invite/b/s9xkhMOw/f2959833df3fe380ad04f3c84578a531/christopher-yeom-connect4)

---

![Connect 4](https://encrypted-tbn0.gstatic.com/images?q=tbn:ANd9GcTGaiAwhEY1OPOR-4azXRQVLdszBRXpr10BCw&usqp=CAU)

## **What is Connect4?**

---

Connect 4 is a two player game where a players take turns dropping colored spots into a seven column, six row grid. Starting from the bottom, making it's way up top by stacking.

![Connect 4 GIF](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/39765499/56462040-26ef7080-63b4-11e9-8f5a-7f0b4dec216d.gif)

## **The Objective**

---

The objective of the game is the first player to create a line of four from their own colored spot in either:

- Horizontal
- Vertical
- Diagonal

---

## **How to create the game using code**

### HTML CSS JS

#### _HTML_

- First you need to create two html files: index.html to link to the web, and I created another called game.html.
- You need to use two html files so you can link and navigate through them.
- In each HTML file, I used a common boilerplate to create a baseline.
- The index.html is used as a display page to welcome users to my page. There is a play button in the bottom that when clicked, it directs to the game.html where you can play the game
- For the index.html, or my display page, I made it really simple by adding a title with an h1 tag called "Welcome to my page". Then underneath I wrote a question if the user would like to play Connect 4.
- Then I created an a tag which displays the word "Play". This is crucial in order to link my index.html to my game.html.
- The "Play" message is an a tag with an href of game.html. So you are able to click the play message and it would transfer to the game.html so the user can play the Connect 4 game.
- In the game.html, I had a similar layout where there is a h1 title but this one is called "Connect 4".
- Then underneath, I put a h2 tag with a message that would show who's turn it would be. With the combination of js, the message changes everytime a player's turn switches.
- Then I would display a message to the right side of the page that would keep track of the game record to see the win, loss, and tie score.
- I also put 42 div tags inside a parent div tag with the class "board".
- This is to create the board. There are 42 spots where a token can fit in so that is why I need 42 div tags.
- I also used a data attribute to make sure each child div tag is specific. This is crucial so the javascript knows when a certain spot is clicked, the proper colored token will appear.
- Finally I will but a restart button below the board to allow players to restart the game once a game has ended.

#### _CSS_

- A CSS file called styles.css was created. It is needed in order to style up your game. This is where people can see how the game looks like.
- To style up the index.html, I set the background color to a darker shade. Then for the font colors of the h1, h2, and a tag, I used complimentary colors of pink. Then I aligned all the tags in the center of the page.
- For the game.html file, I set the same background color the same as the index.html. As well as keeping the font color the same with the h1 tag and centering everything.
- For the game board, there are 7 columns and 6 rows. So the format I used was:
  - display as grid
  - grid-template-column: repeat(7, auto)
  - grid-template-row: repeat(6, auto)
- I made the colors the same as what the original connect 4 colors were so I set the background color to blue.
- For each specific spot I needed to create a circle so I used border-radius: 50% as well as making sure the width and height are the same size.
- Then I made sure whenever the cursor is on a spot, the cursor turns into a pointer to indicate that the spot can be clicked.

#### _JavaScript_

- As I mentioned that CSS is needed to show people how the game looks like, JavaScript or JS shows how the game operates.
- I created a js file called script.js and this is where I will make the game come alive by calling variables, functions, and event listeners.

---

### Credits

[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Connect_Four)
[Connect 4 image](https://encrypted-tbn0.gstatic.com/images?q=tbn:ANd9GcTGaiAwhEY1OPOR-4azXRQVLdszBRXpr10BCw&usqp=CAU)
[Connect 4 GIF](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/39765499/56462040-26ef7080-63b4-11e9-8f5a-7f0b4dec216d.gif)

Commit message:

made variables and event listener works when console log

README.md, after:

# Connect4

## By: Christopher Yeom

#### Checkout the links to my Github and Trello Board

[Github](https://github.com/Cyeom97/ConnectFour_Game)
[Trello Project Board](https://trello.com/invite/b/s9xkhMOw/f2959833df3fe380ad04f3c84578a531/christopher-yeom-connect4)

---

![Connect 4](https://encrypted-tbn0.gstatic.com/images?q=tbn:ANd9GcTGaiAwhEY1OPOR-4azXRQVLdszBRXpr10BCw&usqp=CAU)

## **What is Connect4?**

---

Connect 4 is a two player game where a players take turns dropping colored spots into a seven column, six row grid. Starting from the bottom, making it's way up top by stacking.

![Connect 4 GIF](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/39765499/56462040-26ef7080-63b4-11e9-8f5a-7f0b4dec216d.gif)

## **The Objective**

---

The objective of the game is the first player to create a line of four from their own colored spot wins. The direction of the line could be either:

- Horizontal
- Vertical
- Diagonal

---

## **How to create the game using code**

### HTML CSS JS

#### _HTML_

- First you need to create two html files: index.html to link to the web, and I created another called game.html.
- You need to use two html files so you can link and navigate through them.
- In each HTML file, I used a common boilerplate to create a baseline.
- The index.html is used as a display page to welcome users to my page. There is a play message in the bottom that when clicked, it directs to the game.html where you can play the game
- For the index.html, or my display page, I made it really simple by adding a title with an h1 tag called "Welcome to my page". Then underneath I wrote a question if the user would like to play Connect 4.
- Then I created an "a" tag which displays the word "Play". This is crucial in order to link my index.html to my game.html.
- The "Play" message is an "a" tag with a href of game.html. Therefore the user can click the play message and it would transfer to the game.html so the user can play the Connect 4 game.
- In the game.html, I had a similar layout where there is a h1 title but this one is called "Connect 4".
- Then underneath, I put a h2 tag with a message that would show who's turn it would be. With the combination of js, the message changes everytime a player's turn switches.
- Then I would display a message on the right side of the page that would keep track of the game record to see the win, loss, and tie score.
- I also put 42 div tags inside a parent div tag with the class "board". This is to create the board.
- There are 42 spots where a token can fit in so that is why I need 42 div tags.
- I also used a data attribute to make sure each child div tag is specific. This is crucial so the javascript knows when a certain spot is clicked, the proper colored token will appear.
- Finally, I will put a restart button below the board to allow players to restart the game once a game has ended.

#### _CSS_

- A CSS file called styles.css was created. It is needed in order to style up your game. This is where users can see how the game looks like.
- To style up the index.html, I set the background color to a darker shade of pink. Then for the font colors of the h1, h2, and "a" tag, I used complimentary colors of pink. Then I aligned all the tags in the center of the page.
- For the game.html file, I set the same background color the same as the index.html. As well as keeping the font color the same with the h1 tag and centering everything.
- For the game board, there are 7 columns and 6 rows. So the format I used was:
  - display as grid
  - grid-template-column: repeat(7, auto)
  - grid-template-row: repeat(6, auto)
- I made the colors the same as what the original connect 4 colors were so I set the background color to blue.
- For each specific spot, I needed to create a circle so I used border-radius: 50% as well as making sure the width and height are the same size.
- Then I made sure whenever the cursor is on a spot, the cursor turns into a pointer to indicate that the spot can be clicked.
- For the message tag, I changed the font color to a dark gold and made sure the font size was a little smaller than the Connect 4 title
- Lastly, for the restart button, I wanted to make sure the size was a good fit for the board. I also changed the background color to brown so it goes well with the pink background and the font color to white so it is more visible.

#### _JavaScript_

- As I mentioned previously that CSS is needed to show people how the game looks like, JavaScript or JS shows how the game operates.
- I created a js file called script.js and this is where I will make the game come alive by calling variables, functions, and event listeners.

---

### Credits

[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Connect_Four)
[Connect 4 image](https://encrypted-tbn0.gstatic.com/images?q=tbn:ANd9GcTGaiAwhEY1OPOR-4azXRQVLdszBRXpr10BCw&usqp=CAU)
[Connect 4 GIF](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/39765499/56462040-26ef7080-63b4-11e9-8f5a-7f0b4dec216d.gif)
